{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2576
\cocoascreenfonts1\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12460\viewh17560\viewkind0
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18723\tx19203\tx19683\tx20163\tx20643\tx21123\tx21603\tx22083\tx22563\tx23043\tx23523\tx24003\tx24483\tx24963\tx25443\tx25923\tx26403\tx26883\tx27363\tx27843\tx28323\tx28803\tx29283\tx29763\tx30243\tx30725\tx31205\tx31685\tx32165\tx32645\tx33125\tx33605\tx34085\tx34565\tx35045\tx35525\tx36005\tx36485\tx36966\tx37446\tx37926\tx38406\tx38886\tx39366\tx39846\tx40326\tx40806\tx41286\tx41766\tx42246\tx42726\tx43207\tx43687\tx44167\tx44647\tx45127\tx45607\tx46087\tx46567\tx47047\tx47527\tx48007\li1\fi-1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 UI Browser
\fs24 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18723\tx19203\tx19683\tx20163\tx20643\tx21123\tx21603\tx22083\tx22563\tx23043\tx23523\tx24003\tx24483\tx24963\tx25443\tx25923\tx26403\tx26883\tx27363\tx27843\tx28323\tx28803\tx29283\tx29763\tx30243\tx30725\tx31205\tx31685\tx32165\tx32645\tx33125\tx33605\tx34085\tx34565\tx35045\tx35525\tx36005\tx36485\tx36966\tx37446\tx37926\tx38406\tx38886\tx39366\tx39846\tx40326\tx40806\tx41286\tx41766\tx42246\tx42726\tx43207\tx43687\tx44167\tx44647\tx45127\tx45607\tx46087\tx46567\tx47047\tx47527\tx48007\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf0 Version 3.0.0\
November 2020\
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18723\tx19203\tx19683\tx20163\tx20643\tx21123\tx21603\tx22083\tx22563\tx23043\tx23523\tx24003\tx24483\tx24963\tx25443\tx25923\tx26403\tx26883\tx27363\tx27843\tx28323\tx28803\tx29283\tx29763\tx30243\tx30725\tx31205\tx31685\tx32165\tx32645\tx33125\tx33605\tx34085\tx34565\tx35045\tx35525\tx36005\tx36485\tx36966\tx37446\tx37926\tx38406\tx38886\tx39366\tx39846\tx40326\tx40806\tx41286\tx41766\tx42246\tx42726\tx43207\tx43687\tx44167\tx44647\tx45127\tx45607\tx46087\tx46567\tx47047\tx47527\tx48007\li1\fi-1\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs22 \cf0 \
Copyright \'a9 2003-2020 Bill Cheeseman. Used by permission. All rights reserved.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \CocoaLigature1 PFiddlesoft, PFiddle Software, and the PFiddlesoft logo are trademarks of PreForm Assistive Technologies, LLC.\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://pfiddlesoft.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf0 \CocoaLigature0 pfiddlesoft.com}}\CocoaLigature0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18723\tx19203\tx19683\tx20163\tx20643\tx21123\tx21603\tx22083\tx22563\tx23043\tx23523\tx24003\tx24483\tx24963\tx25443\tx25923\tx26403\tx26883\tx27363\tx27843\tx28323\tx28803\tx29283\tx29763\tx30243\tx30725\tx31205\tx31685\tx32165\tx32645\tx33125\tx33605\tx34085\tx34565\tx35045\tx35525\tx36005\tx36485\tx36966\tx37446\tx37926\tx38406\tx38886\tx39366\tx39846\tx40326\tx40806\tx41286\tx41766\tx42246\tx42726\tx43207\tx43687\tx44167\tx44647\tx45127\tx45607\tx46087\tx46567\tx47047\tx47527\tx48007\li1\fi-1\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18720\tx19200\tx19680\tx20160\tx20640\tx21120\tx21600\tx22080\tx22560\tx23040\tx23520\tx24000\tx24480\tx24960\tx25440\tx25920\tx26400\tx26880\tx27360\tx27840\tx28320\tx28800\tx29280\tx29760\tx30240\tx30720\tx31200\tx31680\tx32160\tx32640\tx33120\tx33600\tx34080\tx34560\tx35040\tx35520\tx36000\tx36480\tx36960\tx37440\tx37920\tx38400\tx38880\tx39360\tx39840\tx40320\tx40800\tx41280\tx41760\tx42240\tx42720\tx43200\tx43680\tx44160\tx44640\tx45120\tx45600\tx46080\tx46560\tx47040\tx47520\tx48000\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf0 UI Element Scripts (PFiddlesoft)
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18720\tx19200\tx19680\tx20160\tx20640\tx21120\tx21600\tx22080\tx22560\tx23040\tx23520\tx24000\tx24480\tx24960\tx25440\tx25920\tx26400\tx26880\tx27360\tx27840\tx28320\tx28800\tx29280\tx29760\tx30240\tx30720\tx31200\tx31680\tx32160\tx32640\tx33120\tx33600\tx34080\tx34560\tx35040\tx35520\tx36000\tx36480\tx36960\tx37440\tx37920\tx38400\tx38880\tx39360\tx39840\tx40320\tx40800\tx41280\tx41760\tx42240\tx42720\tx43200\tx43680\tx44160\tx44640\tx45120\tx45600\tx46080\tx46560\tx47040\tx47520\tx48000\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18723\tx19203\tx19683\tx20163\tx20643\tx21123\tx21603\tx22083\tx22563\tx23043\tx23523\tx24003\tx24483\tx24963\tx25443\tx25923\tx26403\tx26883\tx27363\tx27843\tx28323\tx28803\tx29283\tx29763\tx30243\tx30725\tx31205\tx31685\tx32165\tx32645\tx33125\tx33605\tx34085\tx34565\tx35045\tx35525\tx36005\tx36485\tx36966\tx37446\tx37926\tx38406\tx38886\tx39366\tx39846\tx40326\tx40806\tx41286\tx41766\tx42246\tx42726\tx43207\tx43687\tx44167\tx44647\tx45127\tx45607\tx46087\tx46567\tx47047\tx47527\tx48007\partightenfactor0
\cf0 The UI Element Scripts (
\fs26 PFiddlesoft
\fs24 ) folder contains a collection of example scripts for GUI Scripting.\
\
\pard\tx480\tx960\tx1440\tx1920\tx2400\tx2880\tx3360\tx3840\tx4320\tx4800\tx5280\tx5760\tx6240\tx6720\tx7200\tx7680\tx8160\tx8640\tx9120\tx9600\tx10080\tx10560\tx11040\tx11520\tx12000\tx12480\tx12960\tx13440\tx13920\tx14400\tx14880\tx15360\tx15840\tx16320\tx16800\tx17280\tx17760\tx18240\tx18723\tx19203\tx19683\tx20163\tx20643\tx21123\tx21603\tx22083\tx22563\tx23043\tx23523\tx24003\tx24483\tx24963\tx25443\tx25923\tx26403\tx26883\tx27363\tx27843\tx28323\tx28803\tx29283\tx29763\tx30243\tx30725\tx31205\tx31685\tx32165\tx32645\tx33125\tx33605\tx34085\tx34565\tx35045\tx35525\tx36005\tx36485\tx36966\tx37446\tx37926\tx38406\tx38886\tx39366\tx39846\tx40326\tx40806\tx41286\tx41766\tx42246\tx42726\tx43207\tx43687\tx44167\tx44647\tx45127\tx45607\tx46087\tx46567\tx47047\tx47527\tx48007\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \CocoaLigature1 You may find it convenient to copy the folder into the local Library's Scripts folder on your computer. An easy way to open the Scripts folder is to choose Open Scripts Folder > Open Computer Scripts Folder in the Script menu extra on the right side of the menu bar. You should remove any older \CocoaLigature0 UI Element Scripts (
\fs26 PFiddlesoft
\fs24 ) folder first.\
\
Some of these scripts require specific minimum versions of macOS, as noted. In some cases this is because the target application was updated with user interface changes, and a script using the new GUI won\'92t work with the old GUI. In other cases it is because of changes in AppleScript itself.\
\CocoaLigature1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 For examples of GUI Scripting scripts from Apple, look in the UI Element Scripts subfolder of the local Library's Scripts folder. Note that some of Apple's example GUI Scripting scripts do not work in recent versions of macOS without changes. See GUI Scripting Tip 2 at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://pfiddlesoft.com/uibrowser/support.html"}}{\fldrslt https://pfiddlesoft.com/uibrowser/support.html}} for details.\
\
To run GUI Scripting scripts in Apple's Script Editor application, access must be authorized for Script Editor in System Preferences. To run them from the Script menu extra, access must be authorized for Apple's Script Menu application in macOS Mojave 10.14 or later, or for the SystemUIServer application in earlier versions of macOS. Script Menu and SystemUIServer are located in the /System/Library/CoreServices/ folder. If you compile and run GUI Scripting scripts as script applications (applets), access must be authorized for each script application separately, and code signing and notarization by Apple are required in the most recent versions of macOS. To notarize a script application, use Late Night Software\'92s SD Notary application at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://latenightsw.com/sd-notary-notarizing-made-easy"}}{\fldrslt https://latenightsw.com/sd-notary-notarizing-made-easy}}.\
\
UI Browser is not needed to run these scripts, but you may find it very helpful if you try to modify them.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Clock Menu Extra - View as Analog
\f1\b0 \
\
This script originally used a menu item in the menu of the Clock menu extra in macOS Catalina 10.15 and earlier to set the menu bar clock as an analog instead of digital clock. In macOS Big Sur 11, the Clock menu extra no longer has a menu, and its settings have been moved into the new Dock & Menu Bar pane in System Preferences. This script has been revised accordingly to demonstrate how to set the Clock as an analog clock in Big Sur using System Preferences. See Control Center Menu Extra - Toggle Do Not Disturb to see how to handle settings in Big Sur's other menuless menu extra, Control Center, which uses its own special dialog instead of a preference pane. See Scripts Menu Extra - Open Computer Scripts Folder to see how to handle traditional menu extras with menus.\
\

\f0\b Control Center Menu Extra - Toggle Do Not Disturb
\f1\b0 \
\
This script demonstrates how to use controls that are located in the new Control Center menu extra's dialog. It toggles the Do Not Disturb setting on or off. Several controls are always present in a fixed location at the top of the dialog, including Do Not Disturb. They can therefore be scripted without requiring modification for a particular user's configuration.\
\

\f0\b Music Dock Menu - Set Repeat All
\f1\b0 \
\
Dock menus are scriptable using GUI Scripting. This script demonstrates how to determine whether a specific Dock item is present and its application is running and, if so, to execute its Dock menu commands. It uses GUI Scripting to turn on the Repeat All setting in the Apple Music application in macOS Catalina 10.15. Music must be running and your Music library must be selected. The script can be easily modified to script the iTunes Dock menu in macOS Mojave 10.14 or earlier.\
\

\f0\b Preview - Take Screenshot
\f1\b0 \
\
This script demonstrates how to use the PFiddlesoft GUI Scripting Library to determine whether access is authorized in order to use GUI Scripting when running under OS X Mavericks 10.9 or later. Run this script after installing the script library into a folder named "Script Libraries" in the user Library or the local computer Library. This script uses the Preview application, which is not scriptable without GUI Scripting, to begin a countdown timer and then take a full screen screenshot. Give the countdown timer several seconds.\
\

\f0\b Safari - Search Google
\f1\b0 \
\
This script demonstrates how to fill in the search field at www.google.com in Safari. Like all scripts to control a web browser, especially GUI Scripting scripts, this script is highly sensitive to changes in the layout of the Web site. This script worked correctly on google.com as it existed in early November 2020. If it stops working, fix it by using UI Browser's AppleScript menu to generate a new reference to the search field.\
\

\f0\b Script Menu Extra - Open Computer Scripts Folder
\f1\b0 \
\
This script demonstrates how to control a traditional menu extra. It requires maxOS Big Sur 11, but the same technique works in older versions of macOS. \'93Menu extras" are grouped at the right end of the menu bar. Most of those farthest to the right were owned by Apple's SystemUIServer application in previous versions of macOS. SystemUIServer had a single menu bar of its own in macOS Sierra 10.12 or later; prior to Sierra it had two. Now, in macOS Big Sur 11, some of these menu extras are owned by Apple\'92s new ControlCenter application.\
\
Third-party menu extras appear to the left of Apple's menu extras. Each is owned by its own application. This is also true of some of Apple\'92s menu extras, including the Script menu extra owned by Apple\'92s Script Menu application introduced in macOS Mojave 10.14. Depending on how it is written, a third-party menu extra application can also have two menu bars, but, if so, the first menu bar may be a nonfunctional skeleton of a standard application menu bar, with "Apple", application, "File", "Edit" and similar menu bar items. The second menu bar contains the menu extra as its only menu bar item.\
\
As with all menus, a menu extra's submenus and menu items can only be accessed when the parent menu is open. You open it by sending it a 'click' command using GUI Scripting. Once it is open, its AXChildren attribute acquires a value, typically consisting of a one-item array containing 'menu 1\'92, which in turn has a multi-item child array of menu items, each of which can be sent its own \'91click\'92 command.}